According to the City of Toronto, "Contaminated recycling is currently costing the City millions annually 
and last year an estimated 55,000 tonnes of non-recyclable material was incorrectly put in the Blue Bin."

TOP BLUE BIN OFFENDERS (from the City of Toronto website)

1. Food and organic waste 
"Food scraps like apple cores, eggshells or expired leftovers belong in your Green Bin. When you mistakenly 
toss food scraps in your Blue Bin, food residue and particles get soaked up by paper and can ruin large batches 
of otherwise good recyclables." 

2. Black plastics
"Black plastic of any kind, such as take-out containers and black garbage bags aren’t accepted in the City’s recycling program. 
There are two main reasons for this:
 - there is no stable market for the volume of black plastic generated in Toronto
 - black plastic cannot be sorted mechanically at the recycling facility because the optical sorting technology cannot recognize it."

 3. Hot beverage cups
 "Most disposable hot beverage cups are made of paper, but are lined with plastic or wax, which makes them 
 difficult to sort mechanically at the recycling facility. Conventional paper mills do not want coffee cups 
 because of their low-quality paper and inner liner, which does not pulp easily and causes clogging in the 
 pulping process. The dyes in the paper can also affect the quality of the end paper product and make it difficult 
 for paper mills to turn cups into other paper-based products. As a result, the City has not been able to find 
 a stable market (i.e. buyers) for coffee cups. Please place coffee cups in the garbage. Non-black plastic lids 
 and paper sleeves should be removed and placed in the Blue Bin."

  4. Containers with leftover food
  "Please empty and rinse food containers before tossing them in your Blue Bin. When you don’t, the residue from 
  items like jars and take-out containers get soaked up by paper and can ruin large batches of otherwise good 
  recyclables. Put any food scraps in your Green Bin."

  ITEMS
  GARBAGE							BLUE BIN
  1. Apple core						1. plastic beverage bottle
  2. black plastic fork				2. white plastic fork
  3. black plastic bag				3. white plastic bag
  4. coffee cup with lid			4. papers
  5. soiled napkin					5. napkin
  6. soiled glass jar with lid		6. glass jar with lid
  7. soiled take-out container		7. newspaper
									8. cardboard box